README.md, before:

# msgReader

![alt text](doc/res/msg-reader-screenshot.png)

My collegue sends me a lot of emails in the *.msg format. It's the format that "Old Microsoft Outlook" uses if you export an email or attach it to another email.  
I couldn't even open these files on my Windows 11 machine, because of an error that stated that I need an active Microsoft 365 subscription - which is confusing (or **very** wrong), because I have one and it's active in all other MS Office apps.

Since my collegue doesn't stop sending me these <3 and my Feedback to Microsoft a few months ago didn't do anything 💤, I decided to take matters into my own hands.  
I wrote a small tool that can read these files and show them to me (about) how they are shown in email clients - with HTML and inline images and all.

I am currently writing with the Microsoft Support to get this issue fixed, but until then, I have this tool (and everyone who needs to open *.msg files and can't/wont afford a Microsoft 365 Subscription to open a fricking .msg-File).  

... also - WHY would you put a paywall in front of a file format that you created?

## Features
- Open and read *.msg and *.eml files directly in your browser
- View HTML content and inline images
- Pin important messages
- Multiple file support with message list
- Sort messages by date
- Drag & drop support
- No server needed - everything runs in your browser

## Project Structure
The project is organized into several modules:
- `MessageHandler.js` - Manages message state and storage
- `UIManager.js` - Handles UI updates and rendering
- `FileHandler.js` - Manages file operations and drag & drop
- `utils.js` - Contains MSG file processing and utility functions
- `main.js` - Initializes and orchestrates the application

## HYPER Quick Start (GitHub Pages)
1. Open [rasalas.github.io/msg-reader/](https://rasalas.github.io/msg-reader/)
2. Drag your file from your file system and drop it in the drop area.
3. Done.

You should now see your email contents

## Desktop App

A native desktop app is available for **Windows**, **macOS**, and **Linux**. Download the latest release from the [Releases page](https://github.com/Rasalas/msg-reader/releases).

| Platform | Download |
|----------|----------|
| macOS (Apple Silicon) | `.dmg` file ending with `aarch64` |
| macOS (Intel) | `.dmg` file ending with `x64` |
| Windows | `.msi` or `.exe` installer |
| Linux | `.AppImage` or `.deb` package |

### Benefits of the Desktop App
- **Set as default app** for `.msg` and `.eml` files - double-click to open
- **Automatic updates** - the app checks for new versions on startup
- Works offline

### macOS: "App can't be opened" Warning

Since the app is not signed with an Apple Developer certificate, macOS will show a warning. To open the app:

**Option 1: Right-click**
1. Right-click (or Ctrl+click) on `msgReader.app`
2. Select "Open" from the context menu
3. Click "Open" in the dialog that appears

**Option 2: Terminal**
```bash
xattr -cr /Applications/msgReader.app
```

This only needs to be done once after installation.

### Windows: SmartScreen Warning

Windows may show a "Windows protected your PC" warning. To proceed:

1. Click "More info"
2. Click "Run anyway"

This only needs to be done once after installation.

## Quick Start (locally)
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Rasalas/msg-reader.git
cd msg-reader
```

2. Install the dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

3. Run the application
```bash
npm start
```
A browser window should open with the application running.

## Development
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Rasalas/msg-reader.git
cd msg-reader
```

2. Install the dependencies
```bash
npm install 
```

3. Run the application in development mode
```bash
npm run dev
```

A browser window should open with the application running. The application will automatically reload when changes are made to the source code.

## Build Process
The application uses browserify to bundle the JavaScript modules and tailwindcss for styling.

### Build Commands
- `npm run build` - Builds both JavaScript and CSS
- `npm run build:js` - Bundles JavaScript modules
- `npm run build:css` - Compiles Tailwind CSS
- `npm run watch` - Watches for changes and rebuilds
- `npm run dev` - Runs development server with live reload
- `npm run deploy` - Deploys to GitHub Pages

## Other links

[SourceForge | MsgViewer](https://sourceforge.net/projects/msgviewer/postdownload)  
Java app. Works, basically my favourite, but doesn't show inline images

[encryptomatic.com | Free Online .msg Viewer](https://www.encryptomatic.com/viewer/)  
Kinda sus. I don't really trust them, because they sell the ~same thing as a [product](https://www.encryptomatic.com/msgviewer/msgviewerpro.html). You also can't see inline images and you get an ad in the end of the email instad of in the page itself.

[GitHub | datenteiler/ReadMsgFile](https://github.com/datenteiler/ReadMsgFile)  
Seems to be ok, but it only shows the text version of the email. No inline images or HTML because it uses a command line interface.

[MS Store | MSG Viewer](https://apps.microsoft.com/detail/9nwsk3187kv3?hl=de-DE&gl=DE)  
Costst money and doesn't look promising.

## "Receipts"
account.microsoft.com account page showing an active subsciption. Next payment 26th March 2025 for 69€
![account.microsoft.com account page showing an active subsciption. Next payment 26th March 2025 for 69€](doc/res/microsoft-accounts-webpage.png)

a table showing payments of the last three years. Last payment of 69€ on 26th March 2024
![a table showing payments of the last three years. Last payment of 69€ on 26th March 2024](doc/res/abrechnungsverlauf.png)

Windows 11 Account page showing an active Microsoft 365 Single subscription
![Windows 11 Account page showing an active Microsoft 365 Single subscription](doc/res/windows-account-page.png)

An error message stating that the msg file can't be opened, because it requires an active subscription
![An error message stating that the msg file can't be opened, because it requires an active subscription](doc/res/new-outlook-error-message.png)

## Completed Features
- [x] Allow to upload multiple files at once
- [x] Drop area fills the whole screen
- [x] Show a list of all imported emails on the side
- [x] Sort by date
- [x] Show a preview of the currently selected email
- [x] Separate subject, recipients & sender, body, attachments
- [x] Pin important messages
- [x] Add keyboard shortcuts

## Future Improvements (maybe)
- [ ] Allow to download the email as a .eml file
- [ ] Add search functionality
- [ ] Add filters
  - [ ] pinned messages
  - [ ] attachments
  - [ ] sender
  - [ ] subject
- [ ] Add message categories/tags
- [ ] Add dark mode support

Commit message:

docs: update macOS warning in README for unsigned app handling
- Clarified the warning message regarding the app being "damaged" or "can't be opened" on macOS due to lack of an Apple Developer certificate.
- Updated instructions for bypassing Gatekeeper restrictions, emphasizing the use of Terminal to remove the quarantine flag.

README.md, after:

# msgReader

![alt text](doc/res/msg-reader-screenshot.png)

My collegue sends me a lot of emails in the *.msg format. It's the format that "Old Microsoft Outlook" uses if you export an email or attach it to another email.  
I couldn't even open these files on my Windows 11 machine, because of an error that stated that I need an active Microsoft 365 subscription - which is confusing (or **very** wrong), because I have one and it's active in all other MS Office apps.

Since my collegue doesn't stop sending me these <3 and my Feedback to Microsoft a few months ago didn't do anything 💤, I decided to take matters into my own hands.  
I wrote a small tool that can read these files and show them to me (about) how they are shown in email clients - with HTML and inline images and all.

I am currently writing with the Microsoft Support to get this issue fixed, but until then, I have this tool (and everyone who needs to open *.msg files and can't/wont afford a Microsoft 365 Subscription to open a fricking .msg-File).  

... also - WHY would you put a paywall in front of a file format that you created?

## Features
- Open and read *.msg and *.eml files directly in your browser
- View HTML content and inline images
- Pin important messages
- Multiple file support with message list
- Sort messages by date
- Drag & drop support
- No server needed - everything runs in your browser

## Project Structure
The project is organized into several modules:
- `MessageHandler.js` - Manages message state and storage
- `UIManager.js` - Handles UI updates and rendering
- `FileHandler.js` - Manages file operations and drag & drop
- `utils.js` - Contains MSG file processing and utility functions
- `main.js` - Initializes and orchestrates the application

## HYPER Quick Start (GitHub Pages)
1. Open [rasalas.github.io/msg-reader/](https://rasalas.github.io/msg-reader/)
2. Drag your file from your file system and drop it in the drop area.
3. Done.

You should now see your email contents

## Desktop App

A native desktop app is available for **Windows**, **macOS**, and **Linux**. Download the latest release from the [Releases page](https://github.com/Rasalas/msg-reader/releases).

| Platform | Download |
|----------|----------|
| macOS (Apple Silicon) | `.dmg` file ending with `aarch64` |
| macOS (Intel) | `.dmg` file ending with `x64` |
| Windows | `.msi` or `.exe` installer |
| Linux | `.AppImage` or `.deb` package |

### Benefits of the Desktop App
- **Set as default app** for `.msg` and `.eml` files - double-click to open
- **Automatic updates** - the app checks for new versions on startup
- Works offline

### macOS: "App is damaged" or "Can't be opened" Warning

Since the app is not signed with an Apple Developer certificate (which requires a paid subscription), macOS Gatekeeper will block the app. Starting with macOS Sequoia (15), macOS may report the app as "damaged" - **it is not damaged**, this is just how Gatekeeper handles unsigned apps.  

(I have an Apple Developer Account but all that signing is kind of annoying (for iOS) - I might do that later and maybe publish to the App Store too)

**Solution: Terminal**
```bash
xattr -cr /Applications/msgReader.app
```

This removes the quarantine flag that macOS adds to downloaded apps. It only needs to be done once after installation.

### Windows: SmartScreen Warning

Windows may show a "Windows protected your PC" warning. To proceed:

1. Click "More info"
2. Click "Run anyway"

This only needs to be done once after installation.

## Quick Start (locally)
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Rasalas/msg-reader.git
cd msg-reader
```

2. Install the dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

3. Run the application
```bash
npm start
```
A browser window should open with the application running.

## Development
1. Clone the repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Rasalas/msg-reader.git
cd msg-reader
```

2. Install the dependencies
```bash
npm install 
```

3. Run the application in development mode
```bash
npm run dev
```

A browser window should open with the application running. The application will automatically reload when changes are made to the source code.

## Build Process
The application uses browserify to bundle the JavaScript modules and tailwindcss for styling.

### Build Commands
- `npm run build` - Builds both JavaScript and CSS
- `npm run build:js` - Bundles JavaScript modules
- `npm run build:css` - Compiles Tailwind CSS
- `npm run watch` - Watches for changes and rebuilds
- `npm run dev` - Runs development server with live reload
- `npm run deploy` - Deploys to GitHub Pages

## Other links

[SourceForge | MsgViewer](https://sourceforge.net/projects/msgviewer/postdownload)  
Java app. Works, basically my favourite, but doesn't show inline images

[encryptomatic.com | Free Online .msg Viewer](https://www.encryptomatic.com/viewer/)  
Kinda sus. I don't really trust them, because they sell the ~same thing as a [product](https://www.encryptomatic.com/msgviewer/msgviewerpro.html). You also can't see inline images and you get an ad in the end of the email instad of in the page itself.

[GitHub | datenteiler/ReadMsgFile](https://github.com/datenteiler/ReadMsgFile)  
Seems to be ok, but it only shows the text version of the email. No inline images or HTML because it uses a command line interface.

[MS Store | MSG Viewer](https://apps.microsoft.com/detail/9nwsk3187kv3?hl=de-DE&gl=DE)  
Costst money and doesn't look promising.

## "Receipts"
account.microsoft.com account page showing an active subsciption. Next payment 26th March 2025 for 69€
![account.microsoft.com account page showing an active subsciption. Next payment 26th March 2025 for 69€](doc/res/microsoft-accounts-webpage.png)

a table showing payments of the last three years. Last payment of 69€ on 26th March 2024
![a table showing payments of the last three years. Last payment of 69€ on 26th March 2024](doc/res/abrechnungsverlauf.png)

Windows 11 Account page showing an active Microsoft 365 Single subscription
![Windows 11 Account page showing an active Microsoft 365 Single subscription](doc/res/windows-account-page.png)

An error message stating that the msg file can't be opened, because it requires an active subscription
![An error message stating that the msg file can't be opened, because it requires an active subscription](doc/res/new-outlook-error-message.png)

## Completed Features
- [x] Allow to upload multiple files at once
- [x] Drop area fills the whole screen
- [x] Show a list of all imported emails on the side
- [x] Sort by date
- [x] Show a preview of the currently selected email
- [x] Separate subject, recipients & sender, body, attachments
- [x] Pin important messages
- [x] Add keyboard shortcuts

## Future Improvements (maybe)
- [ ] Allow to download the email as a .eml file
- [ ] Add search functionality
- [ ] Add filters
  - [ ] pinned messages
  - [ ] attachments
  - [ ] sender
  - [ ] subject
- [ ] Add message categories/tags
- [ ] Add dark mode support
